
1. What is React?

React is a JavaScript library used for building user interfaces, especially
single-page web applications. It lets developers build reusable UI pieces
(components) and efficiently update the UI when data changes. React was
created by Facebook (Meta).

2. Is React a library or framework?

React is a LIBRARY, not a framework. It focuses only on the "view" layer
(what the user sees) and does not force a specific project structure or
provide built-in solutions for things like routing or state management.
Those are added separately using other libraries (e.g., React Router, Redux).
A framework, on the other hand, usually dictates the whole application
structure and controls the flow of the program (inversion of control).

3. What is a component?

A component is a small, independent, and reusable piece of code that
returns a piece of UI (usually written in JSX). Components can be:
  - Functional Components (plain JavaScript functions that return JSX)
  - Class Components (ES6 classes that extend React.Component)

Example:
function Welcome() {
  return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;
}

4. Why are components important?

- Reusability: Write once, use multiple times across the app.
- Maintainability: Easier to manage and debug small, isolated pieces of code.
- Readability: Breaks a complex UI into smaller, understandable parts.
- Separation of concerns: Each component handles its own logic and UI.
- Scalability: Makes large applications easier to build and scale.

5. What is JSX?

JSX (JavaScript XML) is a syntax extension for JavaScript that allows
writing HTML-like code inside JavaScript. It makes the code easier to
read and write. JSX is not valid JavaScript by itself; it gets compiled
(transpiled) into regular JavaScript function calls (React.createElement)
using tools like Babel.

Example:
const element = <h1>Hello, JSX!</h1>;

is compiled to:
const element = React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, JSX!');

6. What is Virtual DOM?

The Virtual DOM is a lightweight, in-memory copy of the Real DOM. React
uses it to keep track of changes in the UI. Whenever the state of a
component changes, React first updates the Virtual DOM, then compares it
with the previous version, and finally updates only the changed parts in
the Real DOM. This makes UI updates faster and more efficient.

7. What is the Real DOM?

The Real DOM (Document Object Model) is the actual structure of a web
page that the browser creates and renders. It represents the HTML
elements as a tree of objects that JavaScript can manipulate. Updating
the Real DOM directly is slower and more expensive because the browser
has to re-render/repaint the UI every time a change is made.

8. What is reconciliation?

Reconciliation is the process React uses to update the Real DOM
efficiently. When a component's state or props change:
  1. React creates a new Virtual DOM tree.
  2. It compares (diffs) the new Virtual DOM with the previous one using
     the "diffing algorithm."
  3. React calculates the minimal number of changes needed.
  4. Only those specific changes are applied to the Real DOM.

This process makes React fast, since it avoids unnecessary re-renders of
the entire UI.
